---
layout: page
title:  "API Terminology"
nav_order: 1
parent: Introduction to APIs

# This may be re-inserted at some point based on business decisions:
#**LSM:** Acronym for Language Style Matching. LSM is based on research by James W. #Pennebaker that analyzes the relationship between rapport and the degree to which people #show similar rates of function word use when they communicate with each other. Identifying #the commonalities and differences in their relative use of function words is key to #understanding the degree to which the two people are in sync.
---
# API Terminology

These are terms that you will find throughout this guide:

**REST (or RESTful):** This stands for Representational State Transfer, which is the architecture that most current web APIs are based on. It is a style of design that allows APIs to be user-friendly, low on computational resources, and easily scalable for high-volume workload.

The major advantage of this design is that data are transferred to and from an API via HTTP, which functions as a programming language-agnostic way to ensure compatibility between applications and services. Virtually any web-enabled program can use a REST API.

**JSON:** This stands for JavaScript Object Notation, which is a text format based on the JavaScript programming language. Using JSON provides a method of data exchange that is human readable — as in developers can easily read and write it — and it is also machine readable, meaning computers can easily parse it. JSON has become universal, acting as a kind of interpreter or connector between disparate programming languages, which is helpful considering different API developers use different languages.

When you make a call to an API, data are returned in JSON format, which looks like this:

```
{
"content_tags": [
    "string"
  ],
  "content_handle": "string",
  "language": "string",
  "content_source": 0,
  "content_date": "string",
  "recipient_id": "string",
  "language_content": "string"
}
```

**API Key:** A unique code generated by the API server. You cannot use the API without a valid API key.

**API Secret Key:** A password that authenticates users. In the Receptiviti API, the system generates a new API Secret Key each time you click Generate API Key.

**cURL:** Used through the command line interface of your computer, cURL is a software that communicates with tools such as APIs, and uses methods such as HTTP to do so. Read more here.

**Resource:** Broad terminology for information returned from an API call.

**Endpoint:** A type of URL that expresses the path of a resource to be returned from an API call, indicating how you access the resource.

**LIWC:** Acronym for Linguistic Inquiry Word Count. A framework we employ that utilizes a dictionary comprised of a growing number of categories, each containing words that indicate particular psychological states. We use LIWC categories in the Receptiviti API.

**OpenAPI/Swagger:** Open API, formerly known as Swagger, is a tool that allows you to build the structure of your API so that it is machine-readable, and allows you to generate interactive documentation based on the specification sheet that’s created when building the API. Read more here.
